Goal 1: Innovate for Competitive Advantage 

Description: Innovation is a key element of future readiness. It is essential to preserving and 
expanding US military competitive advantage in the face of near-peer competition and 
asymmetric threats. A theme running through the National Defense Strategy—and subordinate 
strategies like the Artificial Intelligence Strategy—is that preserving and expanding our military 
advantage depends on our ability to deliver technology faster than our adversaries and the agility 
of our enterprise to adapt our way of fighting to the potential advantages of innovative 
technology. The Department will evaluate opportunities for innovation, pursuing those deemed 
most suitable to address military problems and including those likely to deliver leap-ahead 
capabilities. 

Cloud and cognitive computing will significantly alter warfighting and defense business 
operations. Recognizing this, the Department established the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center 
(JAIC) to accelerate delivery of AI-enabled capabilities and is partnering with industry to 
securely deliver commercial cloud capabilities in alignment with mission requirements. 
Modernization of warfighter support systems will enable improved command and control (C2), 
information sharing, and decision support, through a rich and diverse set of analytic capabilities 
fueled by data from sensors across the DoD Information Network (DODIN). Modernization of 
the Defense Information Systems Network (DISN), a key component of the DODIN, will 
provide critical enhancements necessary to fully realize the benefits from cloud computing, big 
data analytics, mobility, Internet of Things (IoT), increased automation and cognitive 
computing. Increased availability and use of secure, mobile, wireless platforms across the 
Department will increase Joint Force maneuver, accuracy, and information advantage. 
Additionally, DoD will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of healthcare, logistics and 
other warfighting support functions. Enhanced delivery and protection of Positioning, Navigation 
and Timing (PNT), and development of a resilient, secure, and adaptive tactical IT infrastructure, 
will improve the Joint Force’s ability to operate in denied, degraded, contested, congested, and 
operationally limited environments. 

Central to many of these areas for innovation is software, which was highlighted in Sections 872-
875 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY2018 and the DoD 2018 Digital 
Engineering Strategy. Effectively managing the cost and speed of integration for software 
delivery across the DoD is critical. Additionally, continued innovation in automating the 
software lifecycle beyond the current state of the practice will be required. 

Mission Impact: This goal contributes to building a more lethal Joint Force (NDBOP Goal #1) 
by preserving and expanding competitive advantage. Additionally, it enables the strengthening of 
alliances and new partnerships (NDBOP Goal #2) by delivering dramatically improved 
collaboration capabilities. Transforming networks, system architectures, data management, 
electromagnetic spectrum operations, and enterprise service delivery also strengthen resilience, 
increase performance, and enable the Department to respond with greater speed and agility. 

Objective 1: Establish the Joint Artificial Intelligence Center (JAIC) to Accelerate 
Adoption and Integration of AI-Enabled Capabilities to Achieve Mission Impact at Scale 

Objective Description: The commercial sector is in the midst of a revolution in AI that is 
reshaping business and society. The 2018 NDS highlights that AI "will change society and, 
ultimately, the character of war." The JAIC will accelerate DoD’s adoption and integration of AI 
capabilities at speed and scale. It will operationalize AI capabilities by overcoming policy, 
technical, and financial roadblocks that prevent enterprise-level deployment, and by leveraging 
the capabilities established through DISN modernization (as described in Goal 1, Objective 8). 
The JAIC will collaborate with DoD Components (e.g. OUSD(R&E), OUSD(I), MILDEPS, 
Combatant Commands) to synchronize DoD-wide AI activities to enhance operational 
effectiveness and lethality, and increase efficiency of back-office business functions. 

Objective 2: Deliver a DoD Enterprise Cloud Environment to Leverage Commercial 
Innovation 

Objective Description: The advent of commercial cloud capabilities is changing the way DoD 
develops, delivers, deploys, and ultimately, buys applications, systems, and services. Cloud is the 
foundation upon which DoD will build and scale more effective cybersecurity, advanced 
analytical capabilities, better command and control, and future enabling technologies. This 
foundation will enable the Department to organize massive amounts of data and support rapid 
access to information for improved decision-making, preserving and extending our military 
advantage. To better take advantage of this information, the optimized enterprise cloud 
environment will also provide a platform for advanced capabilities such as machine learning 
(ML) and AI that are necessary to increase decision-making quality, speed, and lethality. DoD 
will partner with industry to securely deliver commercial cloud capabilities in alignment with 
mission requirements and will manage these capabilities across the enterprise, to include the 
tactical edge (e.g., Denied, Degraded, Intermittent or Limited-bandwidth (D-DIL) 
environments), for improved effectiveness and efficiency. DoD CIO will collaborate with DoD 
Components (e.g., OUSD(R&E), MILDEPS, Combatant Commands) to support achievement of 
this objective. 

Objective 3: Modernize Warfighter Command, Control, Communications, and Computer 
(C4) Infrastructure and Systems 

Objective Description: Guide DoD investment to modernize Joint/Allied/Coalition C4 
capabilities that support and enable the Joint warfighter. In collaboration with DoD Components 
(e.g., OUSD(R&E), MILDEPS, Combatant Commands), outline the way ahead for future 
development, implementation, fielding, and sustainment of strategic and tactical C2 and 
communications systems. Ensure that solutions are operationally effective in D-DIL 
circumstances. 

Objective 4: Treat Data as a Strategic Asset 

Objective Description: The full benefits of decision-making, information sharing, cloud 
migration, AI, and other DoD objectives stated in this strategy are dependent upon DoD’s data 
being visible, accessible, understandable, trusted, and interoperable as prescribed by DoD 
Instruction (DoDI) 8320.07. Data owners and their communities of interest (e.g., financial, 
logistics, healthcare, human resources, cybersecurity, records management) are responsible for 
much of the necessary work. However, essential infrastructure (e.g., IT services registry, meta 
data registry, authoritative data source registry) and defined, standardized data tags or labels do 
not currently exist. Additionally, the Department has no enterprise search capability to enable 
discovery of critical DoD data across its network security domains. 

DoD CIO is collaborating with the DoD CMO and Joint Staff on initiatives to support this 
objective. Joint Staff is driving development of data standards supporting interoperability. 
Separately, the FY2018 NDAA established a comprehensive and detailed set of Congressional 
expectations for the DoD CMO with respect to the treatment of data, summarized as follows: 
1) Establish policy and governance for Common Enterprise Data related to business operations 
and management; 2) Conduct pilot programs to extract this data from relevant systems; 
3) Analyze that data to generate insights that answer critical operational and business questions; 
4) Evolve the pilots into a Data Management and Analytics Shared Service; and 5) Develop an 
Implementation Plan. The DoD CMO outlined its approach to Congress in December 2018. 

Objective 5: Strengthen Collaboration, International Partnerships, and Allied 
Interoperability 

Objective Description: Coordinate efforts across the DoD, North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
(NATO), Allies, and other international partners to advance warfighting interoperability and 
coalition operations. Deepen C4 capability and information sharing. Maximize communications, 
export/sales, and other Security Cooperation activities with allied partner nations. 

The Mission Partner Environment (MPE) enables the DoD to collaborate, share information, and 
conduct operations with mission partners. MPE connects DoD with the whole of U.S. 
government, Federal, State, local, and tribal government entities, allies, non-governmental 
organizations, treaty and private sector organizations, and territorial mission partners on a global 
scale, and supports the full range of military operations, including humanitarian assistance and 
disaster relief. All Combatant Commands (CCMD) require network interoperability with mission 
partners to optimize cooperation with a multi-national force. MPE will enable rapid formation of 
Communities of Interest (COIs) through all phases of military operations and for training and 
exercises. MPE will provide mission partners access to a set of core services and operational 
tools for modernized mission execution. 

Objective 6: Ensure National Leadership Command Capabilities (NLCC) Assured 
Connectivity 

Objective Description: The NLCC will provide diverse, accurate, integrated, survivable, secure, 
and timely assured communication pathways that allow national leadership to execute national 
and military command responsibilities. 

Objective 7: Enhance the Delivery and Protection of Positioning, Navigation, and Timing 
(PNT) 

Objective Description: Ensure positioning, navigation, and timing (PNT) availability and 
access. Precision strike, navigation, and network synchronization are dependent on the accuracy 
and dissemination of PNT signals predominantly provided at the present time by the Global 
Positioning System (GPS) and terrestrial atomic clocks. Improving the capability of the Joint 
Force (and Allies as appropriate) to operate in a GPS-denied or GPS-degraded environment 
requires a two-pronged effort: 1) decrease reliance on GPS-centric solutions by using Modular 
Open Systems Approaches (MOSA) to incorporate promising alternative/complementary PNT 
capabilities into Joint Force PNT devices; and 2) As improvements become operationally 
available, increase military GPS resilience by incorporating modernized GPS satellite, control, 
and user equipment capabilities. The strategy elements within this objective support all three 
Department strategic goals: Increase Lethality, Develop Alliances, and Reform Business 
Practices. 

Objective 8: Modernize Defense Information Systems Network (DISN) Transport 
Infrastructure 

Objective Description: The promised benefits from cloud computing, big data analytics, 
mobility, IoT, increased automation, and cognitive computing can only be fully realized with a 
suitable network. Modernization of the DISN is necessary to improve performance, capability, 
capacity, agility, and security, while reducing cost and complexity. Greatly enhanced bandwidth 
capacity and increased network resiliency support use of DoD-wide services and consolidation of 
critical IT systems, applications, and services from local installations to core data centers and the 
DoD enterprise cloud environment. Convergence on Everything over Internet Protocol (EoIP) 
and demand for information services, such as streaming video and real-time collaboration 
capabilities, are further driving transport infrastructure bandwidth capacity and Quality of 
Service requirements. Modernization initiatives underway will drastically reduce the number of 
network connections needed at any given Base/Post/Camp/Station (B/P/C/S) by consolidating to 
an all-IP infrastructure sharing a common network connection that can be virtualized for specific 
mission needs and cybersecurity protection. Significant efficiencies will be gained by migrating 
to a standardized set of protocols and network connection types, requiring fewer hardware types 
to operate, maintain, and refresh. The Joint Regional Security Stack (JRSS) improves mid-point 
network security, reduces attack surface, and improves situational awareness. Furthermore, it 
provides failover, diversity, mitigation, and resilient cybersecurity capabilities as a means to 
assure timely delivery of critical information to warfighters around the globe. 

Objective 9: Modernize and Optimize DoD Component Networks and Services 

Objective Description: In order to achieve a modernized and effective force, the Department 
needs to consolidate and streamline capability delivery to support an evolving mission 
environment. The Department requires a secure, consistent, and cost efficient network to conduct 
operations and business functions. Modernization of the DoD IT infrastructure requires a focus 
on network and service optimization that converges DoD networks, Service Desks, and 
Network/Service Operation Centers into a consolidated, secure, and effective environment 
capable of addressing current and future mission objectives. Standardizing and modernizing the 
IT infrastructure and services eliminates unnecessary systems and allows the Department to 
focus finite resources across fewer areas, ultimately shrinking the Department's threat surface in 
cyberspace. Additionally, this convergence should yield reduced facility utilization. The initial 
phase of this effort includes Fourth Estate organizations, with the objective to reduce the number 
of networking environments, move to a single service provider, and size the number of Network 
Operations Centers/Security Operations Centers (NOCs/SOCs) for greatest efficiency and 
effectiveness. 

Objective 10: Provide End-to-End Airborne Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
(AISR) Data Transport (DT) 

Objective Description: Develop programmed capabilities and non-material processes to provide 
end-to-end AISR DT capabilities to globally dispersed strategic, operational, and tactical 
consumers (DoD and mission partners) at the time, place, quantity, and quality they require. 
AISR DT capabilities are defined as the signal transmission systems and processes required to 
move data from airborne platforms to required data consumers at the point of need. In support of 
Joint Requirements Oversight Council (JROC) tasking,5 DoD has established an AISR DT 
executive steering function and a joint Integration Task Force to provide direction for 
development of AISR transport capabilities and processes throughout the systems development 
lifecycle. 

Objective 11: Improve Information Sharing to Mobile Users 

Objective Description: The ongoing evolution of computing technology to mobile devices 
offers unprecedented opportunities to advance the operational effectiveness of the DoD. Through 
faster access to information and computing power from any location, field units will be able to 
maneuver in unfamiliar environments with real-time mapping and data overlay capabilities; 
friendly forces will be identified with greater accuracy; engineers and technicians will have 
streamlined identification and ordering of mechanical parts; and military healthcare providers 
will be able to better diagnose injuries and remotely access lab results while away from hospital 
premises. Additionally, by enabling real-time access to important management and productivity 
tools (e.g., e-mail, collaboration), warfighter support functions will be able to more effectively 
manage the business of the DoD. The end result of enhanced enterprise mobility will be: 
Increased availability and use of secure, mobile, wireless platforms across the 
Department—including within D-DIL circumstances.
Access to multiple classification levels of plug and play using authorized government 
devices with minimal configuration.

Objective 12: Evolve the DoD to Agile Electromagnetic Spectrum Operations (EMSO) 

Objective Description: Develop a resilient, secure, and adaptive tactical IT infrastructure 
capable of operating within a contested, congested, and operationally limited EMS environment 
for Joint EMSO sensing, planning, management, and execution in order to enable U.S. 
dominance in all warfighting domains. DoD CIO will collaborate with DoD Components (e.g., 
OUSD(R&E), MILDEPS, Combatant Commands) to support achievement of this objective. 

Objective 13: Drive Standards into DoD IT Systems 

Objective Description: As required by Section 909 of the NDAA for FY2018, the DoD CIO 
will lead development, implementation, and enforcement of an IT, networking, and cybersecurity 
standards process for the Department. DoD CIO will collaborate with Department stakeholders, 
such as OUSD(A&S), OUSD(R&E), and Joint Staff, in assessment and revision of the current 
processes, governance, policy, and standards. As part of this process, guidance for leveraging 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Standardization Agreements (STANAGs), as well 
as commercial and governmental standards, will be provided. A critical desired outcome of this 
overall effort is increased interoperability. The DoD CIO envisions opportunities for synergy between 
compliance with standards and the Department’s overall digital modernization efforts. 

Goal 2: Optimize for Efficiencies and Improved Capability 

Description: Delivering IT capabilities with greater efficiency and performance requires the 
Department to reform the way it operates. In particular, the evaluation and implementation of 
suitable industry best current practices and proven technologies must be greatly accelerated, and 
oversight of IT spending must be improved. The objectives in this goal include shifting to an 
enterprise-wide operations and defense model; right-sizing DoD data centers; optimizing office 
productivity and collaboration capabilities, optimizing voice and video capabilities; improving 
purchasing through enterprise agreements; strengthening partnerships with industry; and 
strengthening IT financial management and accountability. 

Mission Impact: This goal supports reform of the Department’s business practices (NDBOP 
Goal #3). It accomplishes this through such means as deploying shared and DoD-wide services; 
rationalizing DoD applications and systems for migration into core data centers, component 
enterprise data centers, and the DoD enterprise cloud environment; streamlining the technology 
approval process; and strengthening IT financial decision making. 

Objective 1: Shift from Component-Centric to Enterprise-Wide Operations and Defense 
Model 

Objective Description: Shifting from Component Centric to Enterprise Network Operations will 
provide the capabilities necessary to enable operations centers—responsible for executing 
DODIN Operations and Defensive Cyber Operations-Internal Defense Measures (DCO-IDM) 
activities—to more effectively and efficiently secure, operate, and defend the DODIN. The 
vision is to ensure that DoD military commanders, civilian leadership, warfighters, coalition 
partners, and other authorized non-DoD mission partners have access to information and data 
provided in a secure, reliable, and agile DoD-wide information environment to enable C2 of 
forces performing cyberspace operations. The JIE Management Network enables operations 
centers to securely manage the DODIN and its elements. A fully converged DODIN IT Service 
Management solution is envisioned to support change management, configuration management, 
asset management, knowledge management, and service level management. 

Objective 2: Optimize DoD Data Centers 

Objective Description: In accordance with Federal guidance, 
6 DoD is optimizing the 
Department's data center facility footprint and the management and operation of those facilities. 
Ultimately, DoD's Information Enterprise will consist of a streamlined number of data centers 
that effectively and efficiently meet DoD's broad range of missions—from recruiting to 
acquisition management to command and control. As part of the optimization process, 
Installation Processing Nodes must be re-designated as Closing, an Installation Service Node, a 
Special Purpose Processing Node, or a Component Enterprise Data Center. The re-designation 
will be driven by an assessment of the systems and applications (if any) which must remain. 
DoD will migrate applications and systems to select data centers; optimize select data centers for 
performance first, then cost; and consolidate data centers where practical.

Objective 3: Optimize DoD Office Productivity and Collaboration Capabilities (ECAPS 
Capability Set 1) 

Objective Description: DoD's cloud strategy is a main component in the overall efforts to 
modernize the Department's information technology, with the objective of achieving a 
Department-wide enterprise cloud computing ecosystem. As an integral part of that strategy, the 
Defense Enterprise Office Solution (DEOS) will enable the Department to improve 
interoperability and enhance cybersecurity across DoD operational boundaries. DEOS will put 
collaboration and productivity capabilities in the hands of every DoD employee and warfighter 
to more effectively and efficiently accomplish their missions. DEOS will offer an interoperable 
solution for timely and seamless collaboration and information-sharing across operational boundaries and including D-DIL environments. DEOS is the first capability set solution within 
the DoD Enterprise Collaboration and Productivity Services (ECAPS) portfolio. 

Objective 4: Optimize DoD Voice and Video Capabilities (ECAPS Capability Sets 2 & 3) 

Objective Description: Modernizing existing voice and video capabilities is critical for the 
Department to achieve integrated and seamless DoD-wide communication in an effective and 
financially sound way. Existing DoD voice and video services are largely outdated. They include 
a mix of obsolete circuit-based switch systems and video technology reliant on non-IP transport 
that is being phased out by commercial carriers. Eliminating these systems and transitioning to 
an integrated IP environment across Components will allow DoD to: 1) Optimize voice and 
video service, and 2) Effectively manage operating costs as commercial carriers escalate 
sustainment costs for remaining non-IP service. The DoD will also close a significant operational 
gap in current 9-1-1 capabilities and enhance force protection with the implementation of the 
Next-Generation 9-1-1 (NG911) national standard. Once implemented, that standard will operate 
on IP-enabled emergency networks—allowing constituents on DoD installations to make a 9-1-1 
“call” from any communication device in any mode (e.g., voice, text, or video)—and provide 
interoperability with civilian mission partners. 

Objective 5: Improve IT Category Management 

Objective Description: Category management is an approach the Federal Government is 
applying to eliminate redundancies, increase efficiency, and deliver savings from acquisition 
programs. DoD is aligning its IT Category Management with the Federal IT Category 
Management efforts by pursuing strategic sourcing (e.g., enterprise license agreements (ELA)) 
for the acquisition of commercial IT software, hardware, services, and telecommunications. 

DoD’s IT Category Management is designed to save time and money by leveraging commercial 
IT requirements across DoD Components to negotiate more favorable terms in purchasing 
agreements and maximize discounts through enterprise volume purchasing solutions. 

The result of IT Category Management will be: 
Decreased procurement overhead costs by reducing the number of duplicative 
commercial IT purchasing vehicles.
Reduced procurement costs by consolidating orders for common commercial IT.
Lower unit costs for common commercial IT goods and services by maximizing 
discounts through enterprise purchasing solutions. 
Reduced costs of procuring and maintaining underutilized IT assets by improving asset 
visibility to reduce excess inventories.
Improved IT contract and license terms and conditions by using a qualified IT acquisition 
workforce to align enterprise agreements with DoD requirements.
Utilization of enterprise acquisition vehicles that enable the DoD to leverage economies 
of scale.
Improved product support services by including terms for minimum service levels for 
applicable commercial support services in enterprise agreements.

Objective 6: Improve Rapid Technology Deployment Processes 

Objective Description: One persistent challenge for DoD has been that acquisition processes 
have kept the Department from being able to adopt new technology in a timely manner. DoD 
will bring new technology in house much faster through three approaches: streamlining the 
technology approval process, leveraging innovative technology development practices such as 
Digital Engineering, and leveraging approved processes such as Other Transactional Agreements 
(OTAs). All of these approaches will enable the Department to reap the benefits of greater 
efficiency and security. 

Objective 7: Strengthen IT Financial Management Decision Making and Accountability 

Objective Description: The Component Financial Improvement Plans (FIPs), when summarized 
collectively, compose the Department's Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness (FIAR) 
Plan. The DoD Components' FIPs are prepared and executed in accordance with FIAR Guidance 
issued by the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) (OUSD(C)). The FIAR 
Guidance provides the strategy and standard methodology, as well as the step-by-step approach 
for discovery and evaluation; documenting, testing, and strengthening controls; and achieving an 
audit ready systems environment. 

Existing and future systems will need to satisfy joint general and application level control 
requirements identified in the FIAR Guidance and the Federal Information System Controls 
Audit Manual (FISCAM). In addition, Departmental investments made in Internal Use Software, 
purchased (Commercial Off the Shelf (COTS)) or internally developed, must be accounted for in 
a manner that addresses financial statement auditability requirements. 

To strengthen IT financial management and oversight, the FY2018 NDAA requires the DoD CIO 
to review each military department’s and each Defense Agency’s proposed budget against the 
responsibilities outlined in Title 10 USC 142(b) paragraph (1) and submit to the Secretary of 
Defense a report containing the comments of the CIO with respect to all such proposed budgets, 
together with the certification of the CIO regarding whether each proposed budget is adequate. 

Goal 3: Evolve Cybersecurity for an Agile and Resilient Defense Posture 

Description: The scope, pace, and sophistication of malicious cyberspace activity 
continues to rise globally. Growing dependence on the cyberspace domain for nearly every 
essential civilian and military function makes this an urgent issue that must be addressed. DoD 
overmatch in conventional and strategic weaponry may be overcome through sophisticated 
attacks within cyberspace, supply chain exploitation across the acquisition and sustainment 
lifecycle, and intelligence operations targeting insiders with access. The Department must adopt 
a “Cyber First, Cyber Always”7 mindset and be prepared to defend DoD systems in a contested 
cyberspace. Every network, system, application and enterprise service must be secure by design, 
with cybersecurity managed throughout the acquisition lifecycle. The Department will maintain 
system confidentiality, integrity, and availability by defending against avenues of attack used by 
sophisticated adversaries. 

Mission Impact: This goal secures the information technologies and data that enable the Joint 
Force to gain information advantage, strike at long distance, and exercise global command and 
control. It supports all three NDBOP goals (Increase Lethality, Strengthen Alliances, Reform 
Business Practices) and the cybersecurity-focused objectives of the DoD Cyber Strategy. It 
achieves efficiencies by reforming the DoD Risk Management Framework; delivers capabilities 
to preserve the US military competitive advantage and assure mission completion; and 
strengthens collaboration with interagency, international and industry partners. 

Objective 1: Transform the DoD Cybersecurity Architecture to Increase Agility and 
Strengthen Resilience 

Objective Description: The Department’s approach to cybersecurity is documented in the DoD 
Cybersecurity Reference Architecture (CSRA), which guides and constrains how network 
boundaries, mobile and fixed end points, and data are protected. The DoD CSRA is developed in 
collaboration with DoD Component stakeholders (e.g., OUSD(R&E), DISA, NSA, MILDEPS, 
Combatant Commands). It reflects key cybersecurity principles: isolation, containment, 
redundancy, layers of defense, least privilege, situational awareness, and physical/logical 
segmentation of networks, services, and applications. The resulting protections contribute to a 
resilient defense posture and achievement of three cybersecurity objectives: 

The DODIN—to include the data on the network—is defended as a virtual single 
information environment through the use of common processes and capabilities. 
Cyberspace-defenses sense and respond to external and internal threats and take 
appropriate remediation. mitigation. and restoration actions. 
Command and control of forces that operate on the DODIN is supported by shared 
cybersecurity situational awareness of the network as a whole. IT security findings are 
shared and reused throughout the Department to the greatest extent practical. 

Objective 2: Deploy an End-to-End Identity, Credential, and Access Management (ICAM) 
Infrastructure 

Objective Description: DoD must promote implementation of enterprise ICAM to support rapid 
access to mission information, strengthen responsible information sharing and attribution with 
allies and partners, and support greater effectiveness and efficiency through mobile adoption and 
migration to the cloud. ICAM encompasses the full range of activities related to creation of 
digital identities and maintenance of associated attributes, credential issuance for person/non-
person entities, authentication using the credentials, and making access management control 
decisions based on authenticated identities and associated attributes. ICAM creates a secure and 
trusted environment where any user can access all authorized resources (including applications 
and data) to have a successful mission, while also letting DoD know who is on the network at 
any given time. Among its benefits, ICAM also supports correction of weaknesses reported in 
the notification of findings and recommendations (NFR) from the 2018 defense-wide financial 
audit. 

Objective 3: Protect Sensitive DoD Information and Critical Programs and Technologies 
on Defense Industrial Base (DIB) Unclassified Networks and Information Systems 

Objective Description: DoD relies on the Defense Industrial Base to develop advanced 
technologies and warfighting capabilities. Adversaries exploit DIB unclassified internal networks 
and information systems, stealing sensitive information in order to kill, counter, or clone DoD’s 
warfighting capabilities before they are delivered to DoD. To improve the safeguarding of this 
information, DoD CIO, OUSD(A&S), OUSD(R&E), the Principal Cyber Advisor, and other 
stakeholders are collaborating on a multipronged approach that incorporates voluntary 
cyberspace threat information sharing, mandatory cybersecurity standards for defense contractor 
unclassified internal information systems and networks, and cybersecurity reporting of incidents 
that affect DoD controlled unclassified information on defense contractor unclassified internal 
information systems and networks. 

DoD CIO is a key stakeholder in the implementation of the Defense Federal Acquisition 
Regulation Supplement (DFARS) 252.204-7012, “Safeguarding Covered Defense Information 
and Cyber Incident Reporting” requiring industry to implement adequate security for their 
information systems that process DoD controlled unclassified information, including at a 
minimum the security requirements in National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 
Special Publication (SP) 800-171, Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal 
Systems and Organizations. 

DoD CIO also oversees the DIB Cybersecurity (CS) Program. The DIB CS Program is DoD’s 
public-private cybersecurity threat collaboration partnership through which classified and 
unclassified cybersecurity threat information is shared with DIB participants. The DoD Cyber 
Crime Center (DC3) is the operational focal point for the program, analyzing cybersecurity 
threats, developing a common operational threat picture, and sharing mitigations with industry, 
DoD, and interagency partners. DC3 is also the designated single DoD focal point for receiving 
all cybersecurity incident reporting affecting unclassified networks of DoD contractors from 
industry and other government agencies. 

OUSD(A&S) is utilizing pathfinders to assure DIB cybersecurity requirements and expand 
cybersecurity threat information sharing to non-cleared defense contractors. These pathfinders 
will examine (1) a standard cybersecurity maturity model certification for DIB companies, 
(2) external cybersecurity validation of DIB companies with on-premise Controlled Unclassified 
Information (CUI) data through commercial 3rd party companies, and (3) internal cybersecurity 
validation of DIB company volunteers with off-premise CUI data in commercial clouds through 
FFRDC and UARC partners. 

Objective 4: Reform DoD Cybersecurity Risk Management Policies and Practices 

Objective Description: DoD will reform its cybersecurity risk management policies and 
practices to be more effective, yet responsive to the needs of the warfighter. DoD’s risk 
management approach requires prioritizing critical systems and assets; identifying and mapping 
mission risks; and tailoring cybersecurity implementation to mission dependencies. Furthermore, 
increasing dependence on commercial technologies and services (e.g. commodity IT, Industrial 
Control Systems, cloud services), coupled with the interdependent nature of cyberspace, requires 
more robust engagement to increase international cooperation, pro-actively shape standards, 
expand the use of software and hardware assurance methods, and address global supply chain 
risks. Finally, the DoD Risk Management Framework process will be reformed to improve 
effectiveness and efficiency, while ensuring it does not unnecessarily hinder the development 
and deployment of systems supporting the warfighter. 

Goal 4: Cultivate Talent for a Ready Digital Workforce 

Description: Competition for high quality, experienced digital workforce personnel is 
constant and increasingly aggressive. The Department of Defense is one of the three largest 
markets for this talent in the United States due to its size, its continuous adoption and adaptation 
of technology, and its extensive mission requirements. Critical national infrastructure protection 
in particular is a global growth industry. 

DoD is executing a new Functional Community Maturity Model for management of DoD 
civilians. The DoD CIO will implement this model for elements of the Cyber Workforce and 
expand implementation of more agile recruiting, training, and retention capabilities through 
expansion of the Cyber Excepted Service personnel system, incentives, and local supplements. 
Work continues on development of baseline qualification requirements for over 50 cyber work 
roles. This will provide the workforce with a common understanding of the concepts, principles, 
and applications of cyberspace functions to enhance interoperability across organizational lines 
and mission sets. 

Mission Impact: Accomplishing this goal will produce an appropriately sized workforce of 
well-trained, highly qualified professionals to support and defend the DoD Information 
Enterprise. It will also develop an agile and responsive workforce management system capable 
of meeting the Department’s current and emerging cyberspace mission requirements. This goal 
primarily supports rebuilding military readiness and increasing the lethality of the Joint Force 
(NDBOP Strategic Goal #1). 

Objective 1: Strengthen Cyber Functional Community Management 

Objective Description: Improve business practices to promote strategic management and 
development of the civilian cyber workforce. 

Objective 2: Strengthen the IT Acquisition Workforce 

Objective Description: Develop and sustain a cyber workforce cadre skilled in the application 
of strategic planning processes and agile acquisition capabilities for the attainment of secure 
technologies and software. 

Objective 3: Enhance Cyber Workforce Recruiting, Retention, Education, Training, and 
Professional Development 

Objective Description: In 2018, DoD commenced conversion to a new, more agile personnel 
program developed specifically for the Cyber Workforce. This program will continue to expand 
in functionality and scope as additional organizations and individuals convert to Cyber Excepted 
Service, providing hiring managers with greater options for sourcing candidates and the ability to 
offer more competitive compensation packages. A new Cyber Workforce Qualification Program 
is also under development which incorporates flexible attainment of credentials and 
performance-based assessments to achieve a DoD-wide standard baseline of cyberspace 
capabilities. 